[Music]
the 20th century began with as many as
40,000 Tigers in India
but over the next a 70 years hunting and
habitat loss reduced the Tigers to fewer
than 2000
Indian Prime Minister Indira Gandhi
acted swiftly hunting was outlawed in
1973 she launched the government
conservation organization to implement
the national rescue plan project tiger
its objective
[Music]
you
eventually 28 reserves were created
faces of safer for Tigers patrolled by
over 4,000 guards
[Music]
for these big cats the 1970s and 80s
were a golden age the government's
protect Tiger now saw a stunning
comeback the Indian tiger population
doubled to more than 4300 project tiger
claimed these numbers because they
counted their big cats each year they
trace their footprints and made plaster
casts
ran temple in Rajasthan was part of the
project tiger success story in 1973 the
national body created a reserve in
former royal hunting grounds the local
state government was to make sure no
villages remained within its limits